Added new GitHub Actions to docs (#360)
cloudposse/atmos: website/docs/integrations/github-actions/affected-stacks.md

---
title: Affected Stacks
sidebar_position: 30
sidebar_label: Affected Stacks
---

> This is a GitHub Action to get a list of affected atmos stacks for a pull request. It optionally installs 
> `atmos`, `terraform` and `jq` and runs `atmos describe affected` to get the list of affected stacks. It provides the 
> raw list of affected stacks as an output as well as a matrix that can be used further in GitHub action jobs.
> 
> Details and a full list of `inputs` and `outputs` might be found in [GitHub Action](https://github.com/cloudposse/github-action-atmos-affected-stacks) repository on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Streamline Your Change Management Process**

The [Atmos Affected Stacks GitHub Action](https://github.com/cloudposse/github-action-atmos-affected-stacks) empowers you to easily identify the affected [atmos stacks](/core-concepts/stacks/) for a pull request so you can gain better insights into the impact of your pull requests. It works by installing Atmos and running [`atmos describe affected`](/cli/commands/describe/affected), and outputs a comprehensive list of affected stacks, both as raw output and as a matrix to be used in subsequent GitHub action jobs.

Discover more details, including the full list of `inputs` and `outputs`, in the [GitHub Action repository](https://github.com/cloudposse/github-action-atmos-affected-stacks) on GitHub.

The [`describe affected`](/cli/commands/describe/affected) command works by comparing two different Git commits to generate a list of affected Atmos components and stacks. It assumes that the current repo root is a Git checkout and accepts a parameter to specify the second commit.

Overall Process:
1.  Clone the target branch (`--ref`), check out the commit, or use the pre-cloned target repository
2.  Deep merge all stack configurations for the current working and remote target branches.
3.  Identify changes in the component directories.
4.  Compare each section of the stack configuration to detect differences.
5.  Output a matrix containing a list of affected components and stacks

Atmos checks component folders for changes first, marking all related components and stacks as affected when changes are detected. It then skips evaluating those stacks for differences, streamlining the process.
```

## Usage Example

```yaml
name: Pull Request

on:
  pull_request:
    branches: [ 'main' ]
    types: [opened, synchronize, reopened, closed, labeled, unlabeled]

jobs:
  context:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - id: affected

>         uses: cloudposse/github-action-atmos-affected-stacks@feature/initial-implementation

Reviewer: This should be a tag, like v1

Author: there is no `v1` but only `v0.0.1` so i set it to that version
